scene_heading: INT. SURGICAL CHAMBER - NIGHT

text: ...surgical chamber. And watching the screens is a...
          ...chimp, strapped to an operating table, with its skull
          dissected open, webbed in wires and monitoring devices,
          muzzled with a transparent guard. Alive.                        
          Behind the surgical chamber, through the wide doorframe, we
          can see a larger laboratory beyond.

scene_heading: INT. BRIGHT CORRIDOR - NIGHT

text: A group of black-clad ALF Activists, all wearing balaclavas,
          move down a corridor. They carry various gear - bag, bolt
          cutters.       
          As they move, one Activist reaches up to a security camera
          and sprays it black with an aerosol paint can.

scene_heading: INT. LABORATORY - NIGHT

text: The Activists enter the laboratory.

speaker_heading: CHIEF ACTIVIST

dialog: Fucking hell...

text: The Chief Activist takes his camera off his shoulder and
          starts taking photos.
          The room is huge and long, and darkened except for specific
          pools of light. Partially illuminated are rows of cages with
          clear perspex doors. They run down either side of the room.
          In the cages are chimpanzees.
          Most are in a state of rabid agitation, banging and clawing
          against the perspex, baring teeth through foam-flecked
          mouths.        
          They reach the far end of the lab, where on a huge steel
          operating table they see the dissected chimp.

speaker_heading: FEMALE ACTIVIST

dialog: Oh God...

text: The dissected chimp's eyes flick to the Activists. Blood
          wells from around the exposed brain tissue.
          Tears starts to roll down the Female Activist's cheeks.

speaker_heading: CHIEF ACTIVIST

dialog: (to Female Activist)
           Keep your shit together. If we're
           going to get them out of here...

text:  The Finnish Activist is checking the perspex cages.

speaker_heading: FINNISH ACTIVIST

dialog: I can pop these, no problem.

speaker_heading: CHIEF ACTIVIST

dialog: So get to it.

text: The Finnish Activist raises his crowbar and sticks it around
          the edge of one of the doors - about to prise it open.
          At the moment, the doors to the laboratory bang open.
          The Activists all turn. Standing at the entrance is the
          Scientist.                         
          A pause. The Scientist jumps to a telephone handset on the
          wall and shouts into the receiver.

speaker_heading: SCIENTIST

dialog: Security! We have a break-in! Get
           to sector...

text: A hand slams down the disconnect button.

speaker_heading: SCIENTIST

dialog: ...nine.

text: The Chief Activist plucks the receiver from the Scientist's
          hands, and then rips the telephone from the wall.                        
          A beat.

speaker_heading: SCIENTIST

dialog: I know who you are, I know what you
           think you're doing, but you have to
           listen to me. You can't release
           these animals.

speaker_heading: CHIEF ACTIVIST

dialog: If you don't want to get hurt, shut
           your mouth, and don't move a
           fucking muscle.

speaker_heading: SCIENTIST

dialog: (BLURTS)
           The chimps are infected!

text: The Activists hesitate, exchanging a glance.

speaker_heading: SCIENTIST

dialog:            (continuing; stumbling,FLUSTERED)
           These animals are highly
           contagious. They've been given an
           inhibitor.

speaker_heading: CHIEF ACTIVIST

dialog: Infected with what?

speaker_heading: SCIENTIST

dialog: Chemically restricted, locked down
           to a... a single impulse that...

speaker_heading: CHIEF ACTIVIST

dialog: Infected with what?

text: The Scientist hesitates before answering.

speaker_heading: SCIENTIST

dialog: Rage.

text: Behind the Activists, the bank of monitors show the faces of
          the machete-wielding crowd.

speaker_heading: SCIENTIST

dialog: (desperately trying to  EXPLAIN)
           In order to cure, you must first
           understand. Just imagine: to have
           power over all the things we feel
           we can't control. Anger,
           violence...

speaker_heading: FINNISH ACTIVIST

dialog: What the fuck is he talking about?

speaker_heading: CHIEF ACTIVIST

dialog: We don't have time for this shit!
           Get the cages open!

speaker_heading: SCIENTIST

dialog: No!

speaker_heading: CHIEF ACTIVIST

dialog:            We're going, you sick bastard, and
           we're taking your torture victims
           with us.

speaker_heading: SCIENTIST

dialog: NO! You must listen! The animals
           are contagious! The infection is in
           their blood and saliva! One bite
           and...

speaker_heading: FEMALE ACTIVIST

dialog: They won't bite me.

text:  The Female Activist crouches down to face the wild eyes of
          the infected chimp behind the perspex.

speaker_heading: SCIENTIST

dialog: STOP! You have no idea!

text:  The Scientist makes a desperate lunge towards her, but the
          Chief Activist grabs him.

speaker_heading: FEMALE ACTIVIST

dialog: Good boy. You don't want to bite
           me, do you?

text: The Female Activist gives a final benign smile, then the
          Finnish Activist pops open the door.

speaker_heading: SCIENTIST

dialog: NO!

text: Like a bullet from a gun, the infected chimp leaps out at the
          Female Activist - and sinks its teeth into her neck. She
          reels back as the chimp claws and bites with extraordinary
          viciousness.   
          At the same moment, a deafening alarm begins to sound.

speaker_heading: FEMALE ACTIVIST

dialog: (SHRIEKING)
           Get it off! Get if off!

text: The Finnish Activist rips the ape off and throws it on to the
          floor. The infected chimp immediately bites into the man's
          leg. He yells with pain, and tries to kick it off.
          Behind him, the Female Activist has started to scream. She
          doubles up, clutching the side of her head.

speaker_heading: FEMALE ACTIVIST

dialog: I'm burning! Jesus! Help me!

speaker_heading: SCIENTIST

dialog: We have to kill her!

speaker_heading: FEMALE ACTIVIST

dialog: I'm burning! I'm burning!

speaker_heading: CHIEF ACTIVIST

dialog: What's...

speaker_heading: SCIENTIST

dialog: We have to kill her NOW!

text: Meanwhile, the Female Activist's cries have become an
          unwavering howl of pain - and she is joined by the Finnish
          Activist, whose hands have also flown to the side of his
          head, gripping his temples as if trying to keep his skull
          from exploding.

speaker_heading: CHIEF ACTIVIST

dialog: What's wrong with them?

text: The Scientist grabs a desk-lamp base and starts running
          towards the screaming Female Activist...
          ...who has ripped off her balaclava - revealing her face -
          the face of an Infected.
          She turns to the Scientist.

speaker_heading: SCIENTIST

dialog: Oh God.

text: She leaps at him. He screams as they go tumbling to the
          ground.
          The Chief Activist watches in immobile horror as she attacks
          the Scientist with amazing ferocity.

scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT

text: Another ACTIVIST makes his way down the corridor towards the
          lab.

speaker_heading: speaker_heading: 

dialog: (HISSES)
           Terry? Jemma?

text: No answer.

speaker_heading: ACTIVIST

dialog: Mika? Where are you?

text: He reaches the door to the lab, which is closed - and...
          ...as he opens it, we realize the door is also soundproofed.
          A wall of screaming hits him.
          He stands in the doorway - stunned by the noise, and then the
          sight.         
          Blood, death, and his colleagues, all Infected.

speaker_heading: ACTIVIST

dialog:            Bloody hell.                         
          The Infected rush him.                         

scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - LATE AFTERNOON

text: Close up of Jim, a young man in his twenties, wearing pale
          green hospital pyjamas. He has a month's beard, is
          dishevelled, and asleep.
          We pull back to see that Jim is lying on a hospital bed, in a
          private room. Connected to his arms are multiple drips, a
          full row of four or five on each side of his bed. Most of the
          bags are empty.
          Jim's eyes open.
          He looks around with an expression of confusion. Then he sits
          up. He is weak, but he swings his legs off the bed and
          stands. The attached drips are pulled with him and clatter to
          the floor.
          Jim winces, and pulls the taped needles from his arm.

speaker_heading: JIM

dialog: Ow...

text: His voice is hoarse, his mouth dry. Massaging his throat, he
          walks to the door.

scene_heading: INT. COMA WARD - LATE AFTERNOON

text: The door to Jim's hospital room is locked. The key is on the
          floor. He picks it up and opens the door.
          Jim exits into a corridor.
          At the far end, a sign read: COMA WARD. There is no sign of
          life or movement.
          Jim walks down the corridor. One of the doors is half-open.
          From inside, there is the sound of buzzing flies.

scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL WARDS - LATE AFTERNOON

text: Jim moves as quickly as he can through the hospital, still
          weak, but now driven by adrenaline.
          All the wards and corridors are deserted. Medical notes and
          equipment lie strewn over the floors, trolleys are upended,
          glass partition doors are smashed. In a couple of places,
          splashes of dried blood arc up the walls.
          He reaches E. On one wall is a row of public pay phones.
          He lifts a receiver, and the line is dead. He goes down the
          line, trying them all.
          In the corner of the E reception is a smashed soft-drinks
          machine, with a few cans collected at the base.
          Jim grabs one, rips off the ring-pull and downs it in one go.
          Then he grabs another, and heads for the main doors.

scene_heading: EXT. HOSPITAL - LATE AFTERNOON

text: Jim exits and walks out into the bright daylight of the
          forecourt. The camera begins to pull away from him.

speaker_heading: JIM

dialog: Hello?

text:           Aside from a quiet rush of wind, there is silence. No
          traffic, no engines, no movement. Not even birdsong.























