text: EXTREME CLOSEUP of glowing honey-colored stones.  Their shapes ABSTRACT
as THE CAMERA EXAMINES air bubbles and crystalline patterns.
MOVING UP AND OVER this amber abstraction, the CAMERA FINDS unusual
shapes and imperfections caught in the glassy stone:  flecks of dirt,
hairs, cracks.  STILL MOVING.  STARBURSTS OF LIGHT ricochet off the
different surfaces of the stones.
CAMERA TURNS along a creamy stretch of amber.  IT TURNS IN DEEPER,
abstracting the picture further only to find A TINY BLUR that suddenly
RACKS INTO FOCUS - a bug, a mosquito lodged within an amber tomb.  It is
folded on its back.
SLOW MOTION
 as the tip of a fine-pointed drill bores into the amber
toward the trapped bug.  Orange flecks fly.  The mosquito trembles.  The
drill continues, stopping just before it touches the tiny body.
A SHINY PAIR of thin needle-nose pliers reach in the borehole and
extricate the mosquito remains.  These are dropped on a brightly lit
glass slide.  A conveyor belt starts, and the slide moves along.
arriving under a long-lensed microscope.
IN MICROSCOPIC PERSPECTIVE, a thin needle pierces the bug and delicately
removes a fragment of tissue.
PINCERS snare the fragment, dropping it into a narrow tube.  The tube
SPINS, faster and faster until it is a BLUR on the screen.
THE SCREEN FLOODS with an INFRA-RED LIGHT.  Gray, oval shapes rock in a
neutral mist.
HOT SUN overhead in a BIG SKY -
scene_heading: EXT  BADLANDS - AFTERNOON

text: Lodged in the cracked earth are the partially-exposed fossilized remains
of A VELOCIRAPTER, a carnivorous dinosaur.  WIDEN OUT to a SWEEPI
NG
PANORAMA of a dinosaur dig, a major excavation filled with workers
shoveling earth and stone, making measurements, taking photographs,
scribbling notes, and conferring with each other.
The center of all this activity is one man.  In a roped-off area that
circumscribes the exposed bones of the raptor, is DR. ALAN GRANT, head
paleontologist.  Good-looking, late 30's, with a think beard.
Grant lies on his belly, completely absorbed in a small piece of bone.
A GROUP OF TWELVE STUDENTS, notebooks in hand, await his next sentence.
CLOSE ON - the tiny bone.  Grant's nose touches it.
Grant brushes the bone with a toothbrush.  Then he decides on a quicker
way to clean it.  He licks it.  Excited by his discovery, he gets to his
feet and addresses his students, who listen raptly.

speaker_heading: GRANT

dialog:  Right calcaneus of an adult female
          raptor.  Mild stress fractures.  What's
          this tell me?

text: Students look at each other.  A tentative hand.  Grant continues.

speaker_heading: GRANT

dialog: It tells me that this bone connects to
          the navicula which we already found
          articulating to the cuboid.


text: OFFSCREEN, a woman SHOUTS to him.

speaker_heading: ELLIE (off)

dialog:           Dr. Grant!  Dr. Grant!

text: Grant looks up.
DR. ELLIE SATTLER, late 20's, sharp-eyed, tough if she wants to be, runs
like a gazelle across the arid land.  Exuberant, she leaves a trail of
dust behind her.
She zips by A STUDENT guarding the cordoned area.  He tries to stop her.

speaker_heading: STUDENT 

dialog:           Dr. Sattler!  Dr. Grant is thinking!

text: Dr. Grant waves her over enthusiastically with his bone and continues.

speaker_heading: GRANT

dialog: So, what can we stay for sure?  Stress
          fractures in the heel ...

text: Uncertain students.  Ellie arrives and immediately gets into it.

speaker_heading: ELLIE

dialog: She jumps.

text: Grant turns around to her and smiles.  She's got it.  Other students to
- they knew is all along.

speaker_heading: GRANT

dialog: Right as rain, Ellie.  Now, why did she
          jump?

text: No answer.  Ellie gives it a try.

speaker_heading: ELLIE

dialog:  A defensive posture against a vicious,
          blood-thirsty T-Rex?

speaker_heading: GRANT

dialog: (nodding)
          Perhaps.  Or maybe to select the smaller,
          more tender leaves in the higher branches
          with which to suckle her young?

text: Ellie jumps up.

speaker_heading: ELLIE

dialog:           I bet is was a mating ritual.

text: Students laugh.  One student eyes Grant's self-conscious smile at Ellie.

speaker_heading: GRANT

dialog: The science of paleontology can't answer
          these questions.  Novelists and artists
          who dream a vision of the Jurassic period
          can attempt these questions with their
          imaginations.  What we scientists can say
          is considering the mass and kinetic
          articulation of these bones, this animal
          had a vertical leap
 of about twelve feet.
          Not as entertaining as fiction, but
          absolutely fact without prejudice.

text: Ellie intrudes again.

speaker_heading: ELLIE

dialog: Excuse me, Dr. Grant.  But ... fact is,
          we're late.  There's the car.

text: She points.  On the horizon, a limousine speeds toward them, leaving a
dusty wake.
Grant sets the rules for his departure, giving instructions individually
as Ellie pulls him away, carrying their bags.

speaker_heading: GRANT

dialog: Jim, you keep making up the plaster
          batches.  Whatever ratio you're using,
          it's perfect.  Nora, no digging after
          five - when the temperature drops, those
          bones are just too brittle.  Bill, I
          don't want any tourists walking over my
          raptor - I don't care if the Governor of
          Montana is with them, just you guys.

text: Grant and Ellie continue walking.  She interrupts his continued barrage.
