scene_heading: EXT. LABYRINTH - NIGHT

text: In the foreground, OFELIA - 11 years old, skin white as
snow, ruby lips and ebony hair - is sprawled on the ground.
A thick ribbon of blood runs from her nose.
But - the blood is flowing backward into her nostril. Drop
by drop, the blood leaps up and disappears.
Ofelia's pupils dilate-

speaker_heading: NARRATOR

dialog: Long ago in the Underground Realm...

text: CAMERA MOVES INTO THE DARK PUPIL-

speaker_heading: NARRATOR

dialog: ...where there are no lies or pain, there
lived a Princess who dreamt of the human
world.

text: The sound of muffled wind.

speaker_heading: NARRATOR

dialog: She dreamt of blue skies, the soft breeze
and sunshine...

text: A dark CASTLE takes shape. Here, a tower... there, a
turret... and lighted windows.
Finally, the damp, mildewed walls of a water well come into
focus.

speaker_heading: NARRATOR

dialog: One day, eluding her keepers, the
Princess escaped.

text: A woman's silhouette crosses CAMERA-

speaker_heading: NARRATOR

dialog: Once outside, the brightness blinded her
and erased her memory...

text: A circular staircase leads up... toward daylight, where the
image...

speaker_heading: NARRATOR

dialog: She forgot who she was and where she came
from. Her body suffered cold, sickness
and pain. Eventually, she died.

scene_heading: EXT. BOMBED CITY - DAY

text: CAMERA TRACKS past scenes of destruction: bombed-out
buildings... cathedrals in ruins.

speaker_heading: NARRATOR

dialog: Her father, the King, always knew that
the Princess would return, perhaps in
another body, in another place, at
another time.

text: On half-demolished walls, Falangist posters declare Franco's
triumph. Among the ruins, smaller, poignant traces of war:
shoes, broken eye-glasses...

speaker_heading: NARRATOR

dialog: And he would wait for her, until he drew
his last breath, until the world stopped
turning...

text: Through the ruined buildings, a SMALL CARAVAN OF BLACK
BENTLEY CARS comes into view.
The shiny chrome fenders pass directly by CAMERA; they bear
all the Fascist insignias and flags.

scene_heading: INT. MAIN CAR - SAME

text: Looking out the window: OFELIA.
She's dressed in plain, slightly frayed clothing. Not very
dainty. On her lap is a book of fairy tales.
CAMERA studies one of the watercolors that adorn the pages:
an illustration of a little girl dancing with several
fairies flying around her.
At her side, a small pile of similar books in a book strap.

speaker_heading: CARMEN

dialog: I don't understand why you had to bring
so many books, Ofelia.

text: Ofelia turns her gaze toward the opposite seat, where her
mother, CARMEN, 28, is napping, her enormous stomach
evidence of advanced pregnancy. She, too, has black hair.

speaker_heading: CARMEN

dialog: We're going to the country... the
outdoors... plenty of fresh air.

text: She takes the book away from Ofelia.

speaker_heading: CARMEN

dialog: Fairy tales? You're too old to be filling
your head with such nonsense.

text: She pauses, feeling nausea.

speaker_heading: CARMEN

dialog: Ask them to stop the car- please-

text: Ofelia knocks on the partition window of the sedan. The
Driver stops.

scene_heading: EXT. WOODS - SAME

text: The caravan of cars stops. Carmen hurriedly climbs down and
moves to the front of the main car.
Gasping for air, she battles the nausea. Ofelia timidly
approaches her.

speaker_heading: CARMEN

dialog: Ofelia, wait up.

text: She grabs her pregnant abdomen.

speaker_heading: CARMEN

dialog: Your brother's not well.

text: Ofelia nods and moves away. SERRANO, a military man, climbs
out of the car behind them and approaches Carmen solicitous.

speaker_heading: SERRANO

dialog: Madam, are you feeling ill?

speaker_heading: CARMEN

dialog: Water- just a bit of water-

speaker_heading: SERRANO

dialog: (to one of his men)
Water, bring water for the Captain's
wife.

text: Ofelia walks alongside the road, moving into the woods and
further away from the caravan of cars.
CAMERA surveys the heavy forest: a tangled tapestry of moss
and fog. The trees, swayed by the wind, murmur softly around Ofelia.
She stumbles upon a strange stone by the side of the road.
Roughly the size of a fist- carved on it, the outline of a
human EYE.
Fascinated, the young girl picks it up.
She looks around and finds -amidst the shrubs- an ancient
stone monolith incised with Celtic lettering.
It's crowned with the grotesque face of a satyr- mouth open
wide.
A piece of the brutish face is missing: an eye.
Ofelia fits the piece of engraved stone in the missing area.
A perfect fit.
From inside the statue a clicking noise emerges. The wind
picks up and out of the satyr's open mouth, a STICK INSECT lazily crawls
out. Ofelia smiles. The insect climbs atop the stone head
and studies the girl for a moment. Then

speaker_heading: CARMEN

dialog: Ofelia??

text: The sound of Carmen's voice startles the creature, which flies
off. Ofelia runs to her mother's side.

speaker_heading: OFELIA.

dialog: (enthusiastic)
A fairy- I saw a fairy!!

speaker_heading: CARMEN

dialog: Oh- look at your shoes!! They're covered
in mud!

text: They head back to the caravan.

speaker_heading: CARMEN

dialog: When we get to the mill I want you to
greet Captain Vidal.
That man- has been very good to us,
darling. You have no idea-
So, I want you to call him "Father." Do
you hear me? "Father..."
It's just a word, Ofelia.

text: The Stick Insect lands in a nearby tree and observes inquisitively
as Mother and daughter climb into the main car and head off.
A beat later, the Stick Insect flies after them.

scene_heading:  INT. WATER MILL - DAY

text: CLOSE-UP: a gold pocket watch, on a heavy chain. The glass
dial is cracked...
A gloved THUMB snaps the cover shut. A VOICE - CAPTAIN VIDAL
- mutters in irritation.

speaker_heading: VIDAL

dialog: Fifteen minutes late.

text: ANGLE WIDENS to describe a dilapidated WATER MILL.
The site consists of a pair of dark stone buildings with
corrugated roofs, connected to the mill by a small stone
bridge. A large water wheel hangs over the dry riverbed.
The wooden beams and columns bear sculpted Celtic motifs and
here and there, small, odd, carved creatures.
The walls have been reinforced with hundreds of sand-bags
and wooden pontoons, as if preparing for an attack.
CAPTAIN VIDAL and a small group of SERVANTS and SOLDIERS
wait patiently outside.

speaker_heading: SOLDIER

dialog: Captain!! They're here-

text: The caravan of Bentleys stops in front of the building. Vidal
and his group moves in. Servants and Soldiers unload luggage
withy military efficiency. In charge is MERCEDES, a young
but strict country woman.
Vidal greets Carmen.

speaker_heading: VIDAL

dialog: Carmen- Welcome-

text: With a pleasant smile, he touches her pregnant belly and
then points at a wooden wheelchair pushed to Carmen's side
by a small, nervous man SGT. GARCES. By his side stands
DOCTOR FERREIRO, a pleasant, scholarly man in his mid
forties.

speaker_heading: CARMEN

dialog: I- I don't need it- I can walk by myself.

speaker_heading: VIDAL

dialog: Doctor Ferreiro prefers that you don't
exert yourself.

speaker_heading: CARMEN

dialog: N-no...

text: Vidal leans towards her and whispers -ever so softly- in her
ear:

speaker_heading: VIDAL

dialog: Then do it for me...

text: She obeys. As she sits, Ofelia exits the automobile, holding
her books close to her chest.

speaker_heading: CARMEN

dialog: Ofelia. Greet the Captain.

text:  She is wheeled away. An awkward silence passes between the
young girl and the Captain.

speaker_heading: VIDAL

dialog: Ofelia-

text: The girl extends her hand. He grabs it, firm but cold. It is
her left hand.

speaker_heading: VIDAL

dialog:  It's the other hand, Ofelia.

text: He turns to the servants.

speaker_heading: VIDAL

dialog: Mercedes, take my wife's luggage to her
room-

speaker_heading: MERCEDES

dialog: Yes, sir.

text: Mercedes glances back to find Ofelia curiously gazing at-
-a pile of sandbags. Perched on top-
-the big Stick Insect.
It fans out its multiple wings. Twice. Ofelia runs over and
tries to catch it.
But the Stick Insect takes off and escapes. The girl drops her
books and goes after it.

scene_heading: EXT. GARDENS - FURTHER - CONTINUOUS

text: Ofelia follows the Stick Insect to the edge of a small rise.
She follows it with her eyes and sees, about 100 meters
away, surrounded by trees, the ruins of a garden LABYRINTH.
The CAMERA glides up for a better view. The labyrinth is
circular, its paths overgrown and partially blocked.
Ofelia enters the labyrinth through an archway. She ventures
down one of its pathways and stops-

speaker_heading: MERCEDES

dialog: It's a labyrinth-

text: Ofelia turns- the young woman stands by her side. Ofelia's
books in hand.

speaker_heading: MERCEDES

dialog: Just a pile of old stones.
They've always been there, even before
the mill. Better you don't go near it-
You could get lost.

text: A ray of sunlight breaks through the grey clouds and
illuminates the old ruins. Mercedes hands her the books.

speaker_heading: OFELIA.

dialog: Thank you.

speaker_heading: MERCEDES

dialog: Have you read them all?

text: Garcés shouts from the mill:

speaker_heading: GARCES

dialog: Mercedes!
(Mercedes reacts)
The Captain’s calling you.

text: Mercedes makes a small gesture of goodbye to Ofelia.

speaker_heading: MERCEDES

dialog: Your father needs me.

text: She turns and walks away-

speaker_heading: OFELIA.

dialog: He's not my father.

text: Mercedes doesn't understand. The girl runs up to her.

speaker_heading: OFELIA.

dialog: The Captain- he's not my father. My
father was a tailor. He died in the war. The Captain’s not my father!

text: Mercedes can't help but smile at the girl's sudden
vehemence.

speaker_heading: MERCEDES

dialog: Well, you've made that clear enough.

text: They walk away together.

speaker_heading: OFELIA.

dialog: Did you see my mother?
(Mercedes nods)
She's pretty isn't she?
(Mercedes nods)
You saw her belly? She's sick with child.

text: As they go into the house, the Stick Insect - perched atop
the labyrinth's archway - monitors their every move.

scene_heading: INT. DINING ROOM - NIGHT

speaker_heading: VIDAL

dialog: The guerillas are sticking to the woods
because it's hard to track them down up
there.

text: Vidal is standing at an enormous dining table. Serrano,
Garcés and a few lower-ranking officials surround him.

speaker_heading: VIDAL

dialog: Those pricks know the terrain better than
any of us. We need to force them down -

text: Vidal sticks pins into one of the larger maps.

speaker_heading: VIDAL

dialog: -let's block their access to medicine and supplies.

text: Mercedes enters bearing a tray of olives, cold cuts and a
bottle of Orujo liquor.

speaker_heading: VIDAL

dialog: We'll set up three command posts. Here,
here and here.

text: Mercedes glances briefly at the maps, concealing avid interest.
Suddenly, Vidal grabs Mercedes by the arm.

speaker_heading: VIDAL

dialog: Have Dr. Ferreiro come see me.

speaker_heading: MERCEDES

dialog: Yes, Sir...

text: Turning his attention back to his maps, Vidal takes two
olives and pops them into his mouth.

speaker_heading: VIDAL

dialog: (chewing)
Those bastards are going to starve...
you'll see...

scene_heading: INT. UPPER BEDROOM - DUSK

text: The doctor stirs some drops of medicine into a glass of
water. Carmen lies back in a monumental carved bed. On her
lap there are several playing cards.

speaker_heading: DOCTOR

dialog: Just four drops at bedtime and you'll
sleep all night long.

text: He gives her the water and the medicine vial. Carmen drinks
weakly. Ofelia stands by her side.

speaker_heading: DOCTOR

dialog: Don't hesitate to call if you need
anything, Madame. You- or your little
nurse.

text: He grins at Ofelia, then exits the room. Carmen gives Ofelia
the medicine vial.

speaker_heading: CARMEN

dialog: Go. Close the door so I can sleep.

scene_heading: INT. FOYER/STAIRWAY - NIGHT

text: In the hallway, the doctor finds Mercedes waiting for him.
They proceed in silence down the hallway and look down into the foyer: empty.

speaker_heading: MERCEDES

dialog: You must come up the mountain and see him-
the leg wound- its getting worse...

text: The doctor nods timidly and gives Mercedes a small PACKAGE
wrapped in dark paper and neatly tied in string.

speaker_heading: DOCTOR

dialog: This is all I could get. I'm sorry.

text: Mercedes sighs, disappointed.

speaker_heading: MERCEDES

dialog: He's downstairs- don't keep him waiting.

text: The doctor moves downstairs. Mercedes glances toward the
Upper Bedroom and discovers Ofelia, watching her attentively- how long has
she been there?
The girl closes the door quietly.

scene_heading: INT. UPPER BEDROOM - NIGHT

text: Ofelia takes off her shoes and climbs into her mother's bed.
As she cuddles close to her mother-

speaker_heading: CARMEN

dialog: Jesus- Your feet- they're frozen.

text: She caresses Ofelia's head. The wind picks up and the house
timbers moan and creak.

speaker_heading: CARMEN

dialog: Are you scared?

speaker_heading: OFELIA.

dialog: A little bit.

speaker_heading: OFELIA.

dialog: What's that noise?

speaker_heading: CARMEN

dialog: Nothing, just the wind. Nights here are
different from city nights. There, you
hear cars, trains. Here the houses are
old and creaky.

text: The house utters a series of deep, rumbling noises.

speaker_heading: CARMEN

dialog: Almost like they're speaking.

text: Tomorrow, I'm going to give you something
special.

speaker_heading: OFELIA.

dialog: A book?

speaker_heading: CARMEN

dialog: No, something much better.

text: A beat of silence and then-

speaker_heading: OFELIA.

dialog: Why did you have to get married?

speaker_heading: CARMEN

dialog: We were alone too long.

speaker_heading: OFELIA.

dialog: You weren't alone. You were never alone.

speaker_heading: CARMEN

dialog: When you're older you'll understand. It
hasn't been easy for me.

text: She winces in pain-

speaker_heading: CARMEN

dialog: Your brother's- he's acting up. Tell him
one of your stories so he'll calm down.

text: Ofelia gently leans on her mother's stomach and taps it with
one finger, as if it were a telegraph key.

speaker_heading: CARMEN

dialog: My brother, my brother...

text: Carmen closes her eyes and listens to her daughter's voice-

speaker_heading: OFELIA.

dialog: ... a long, long time ago in a grey, sad
country...





