scene_heading: INT. HEADQUARTERS TENT — NIGHT

text:  CLOSE SLOT — the hand of General Nikolas Pherides  The
               General's hand spasmodically opens and closes around the hilt
               of a sword which has been struck into the earth, point
               foremost as a support.
               The CAMERA PULLS BACK to reveal his naked forearm and from
               this forearm gush gouts of arterial blood. The blood falls
               into an enamel basin,
               Over this CLOSE SHOT VOICES can be heard.


speaker_heading:  FIRST OFFICER'S VOICE

dialog:  Dead on the field, four thousand
                         five hundred seventy—two of the
                         enemy — three thousand of our own
                         men. Burial parties are already at
                         work. We are assigning men from
                         every company to clear the field,

speaker_heading:   DR. DROSSOS' VOICE

dialog: (cutting in)
                         Tell them to pour lime in the
                         graves.

text: The CAMERA IS DRAWING BACK to reveal General Nikolas
               Pherides, the commander of a Greek army corps, seated behind
               a small table  His left hand is outstretched to the
               barber—surgeon who kneels at his side and is engaged in
               bleeding him,

speaker_heading: FIRST OFFICER'S VOICE

dialog:  (same tone)
                         Enemy casualties estimated as nine
                         thousand —— prisoners ——five
                         hundred.

text: The CAMERA CONTINUES DRAWING BACK to disclose the entire mise
               on scene. Four Greek officers stand before the General.  Two 
               are great burly line officers; their uniform tunics open at
               the neck, their caps on the back of their heads and their
               great sabres trailing along the ground. The third is a
               medical officer, Dr. Alexander Drossos. He is excessively
               neat and dandified in his uniform, with pince—nez glasses set
               perfectly straight on the bridge of his nose. The fourth is
               an Adjutant, military enough in dress and bearing but with a
               great brigand's mustache and merry black eyes. At the
               General's right hand sits a young American, Oliver Davis, a
               reporter for the New York Morning Globe. He is dressed in the
               semi—uniform outfit which Richard Harding Davis popularized:
               breeches, leather leggings and a khaki tunic of military cut.
               While the rest talk, he is busily scribbling on a pad,
               without paying the least attention to any of then.
               The second officer breaks in on the first officer's report,
               unable to restrain his enthusiasm longer

speaker_heading: SECOND OFFICER

dialog:  A greet battle —— a great victory!

text:                MED. CLOSE SHOT — General Pherides and Dr  Drossos.

speaker_heading:    DR. DROSSOS

dialog:   (dryly)
                         To be sure . Enough blood spilled
                         to satisfy anyone --
                             (turning to the General)
                         except General Nikolas Pherides.
                         You're letting that fool drain your
                         life away.

speaker_heading:  GENERAL

dialog:    (looking up)
                         Your father always prescribed it,
                         and I'm alive to tell you so.

text: FULL SHOT — the entire party inside the tent. In the
               meantime, the barber-surgeon has finished his work and is
               binding up the General's arm. He cinches the bandage tight. 
               The doctor shrugs.

speaker_heading:   DR. DROSSOS

dialog: At least get a decent night's
                         sleep.
                             (smiling)
                         Consider it a prescription from my
                         father..

text: The General nods. The three officers and the Adjutant leave,
               pausing at the tent flap to call back their "good nights".  
               Hardly have they gone when the General rises from his chair
               and begins to pace the narrow floor of the tent; his shadow
               walking with him on the side walls and ceiling. The young
               correspondent looks up and watches him. Finally, he speaks.
               MED. TWO SHOT - Oliver and the General.

speaker_heading: OLIVER

dialog:           Why not Take the doctor's advice?
                         You're the hero of the battle of
                         Corphon.

speaker_heading:  GENERAL

dialog: Hero?

speaker_heading:  OLIVER

dialog:  (insistently)
                         In the New York Morning Globe,
                         the man who wins victory is always
                         a hero. -

text:  The General puts his hand on Oliver's arm.

speaker_heading:  GENERAL

dialog: Listen 

text: Both men are silent in an attitude of listening - from
               outside can be heard distantly the screaming and groaning of
               the wounded.

speaker_heading:  GENERAL

dialog:  You know that sound, Oliver?

speaker_heading:  OLIVER

dialog: I heard the same sound at
                         Ladysmith, at Nukden, Port
                         Arthur.  What do you expect
                         after a battle?

speaker_heading:  GENERAL

dialog:                          You were at those battles as a
                         spectator — — I wonder if you can
                         think what that sound might mean to
                         me —— those men out there —— dead
                         or dying —— by my order -- because
                         I willed it so.

text: CLOSE TWO SHOT — Oliver and the General. Oliver holds up the
               lantern and tries to peer into the darkness. The General
               starts off and Oliver falls into step behind him. They pass a
               sentry who salutes. Only the lighted lantern can be seen as
               they go into the darkness.

scene_heading: EXT. BATTLEFIELD - NIGHT

text:  The CAMERA in SET UP TO SHOOT PAST the heaped-up dead. The
               only illumination is the lantern which Oliver carries, he and
               the General pick their way between the dead.
               ANOTHER ASPECT of the battlefield - an ox cart loaded with
               the dead, some of them tied to the rear axle by their naked
               legs. Two men, in the hooded coats worn by the infantry of
               the Balkan allies, are busy loading the cart. They look up,
               astonished, as the General and Oliver pass.
               STILL ANOTHER ASPECT of the battlefield — the General pauses
               as if to search out his way and then starts off determinedly
               toward the left. Oliver takes two long strides to catch up
               with him. The CAMERA DOLLIES WITH them. Oliver lifts the
               lantern and gestures outward with it.